# Statistics and Probability Theory
This is a one-semester exercise course covering methods and tools of descriptive and inferential statistics, core concepts of probability theory and implementation of the statistical analysis methods. The contents of the course are presented in the accompanying lectures and then practiced and deepened in these exercise sessions.
The focus is on methods and tools of descriptive and inferential statistics, core concepts of probability theory and implementation of the statistical analysis methods. <br /> <br />
• Probability theory: counting (multiplication rules, permutations, combinations), calculate probabilities, Bayes theorem, discrete and continuous random variables, distributions (Bernoulli, binomial, geometric, Poisson, uniform, normal and exponential distributions), quantiles, mean and variance, independence, conditional probability, covariance, correlation, independence, Law of large numbers, Central limit theorem.<br />
• Descriptive Statistics: elementary statistics, empirical distribution, graphical representations (frequency table, diagrams, histograms, scatterplots).<br />
• Inferential statistics: Significance tests and confidence intervals (one- and two-sample z-tests and t-tests), p-value, significance level, α- and β-errors (also called errors of Type I and Type II), nonparametric tests (goodness-of-fit tests, chisquare tests for homogeneity and independence), analysis of variance, multiple comparisons.<br />
• Linear regression (correlation, simple linear model, regression line, coefficient of determination). <br /> <br />
Particular attention is paid to the use of the statistical software R to implement the statistical analysis methods covered in the course.
